# Storage Factory

## Introduction
You can find the code for this section in the [Remix Storage Factory Github repository](https://github.com/cyfrin/remix-storage-factory-f23). In these nine lessons, we'll work with three new contracts:

1. `SimpleStorage.sol` - the contract we build in the previous section (simpleStorage), with some modifications
2. `AddFiveStorage.sol` - a child contract of `SimpleStorage` that leverages _inheritance_
3. `StorageFactory.sol` - a contract that will _deploy_ a `SimpleStorage` contract and _interact_ with it

## Section Overview
```
contract StorageFactory {
    SimpleStorage[] public listOfSimpleStorageContracts;

    function createSimpleStorageContract() public {};
    function sfStore(uint256 _simpleStorageIndex, uint256 _simpleStorageNumber) public {};
    function sfGet(uint256 _simpleStorageIndex) public view returns (uint256) {}
}
```

- After deploying `StorageFactory` and executing its function `createSimpleStorageContract`, we can observe a new transaction appear in the Remix terminal. It's a **deployment transaction** of the `SimpleStorage` contract, executed by the `StorageFactory` contract.

- It's possible to interact with this newly deployed `SimpleStorage` via the `store` function. We'll do this by using the **`sfStore`** function from the `StorageFactory` contract. This function accepts two parameters: the index of a deployed `SimpleStorage` contract, which will be '0' since we just deployed one contract, and the value of a `favoriteNumber`.

- The **`sfGet`** function, when given the input '0', will indeed return the number provided by the previous function. The **address** of the `SimpleStorage` contract can then be retrieved by clicking on the get function `listOfSimpleStorageContracts`.

## Conclusion
- The `StorageFactory` contract manages numerous instances of an external contract `SimpleStorage`. It provides functionality to deploy new contract instances dynamically and allows for the storage and retrieval of values from each instance. These instances are maintained and organized within an array, enabling efficient tracking and interaction.

# Setting the Project
- In this `StorageFactory` setup, we'll explore what _composability_ means, showing its ability to deploy and interact with external `SimpleStorage` contracts.

- Compossability: The ability for contracts to interact with each other seamlessly

> ðŸ‘€â—**IMPORTANT**\
> One of the fundamental aspects of blockchain development is the seamless and permissionless interaction between contracts, known as **composability**. This is particularly crucial in decentralized finance (DeFi), where complex financial products interact effortlessly through common smart contract interfaces.

Let's set up the backbone of the code, that contains the function `createSimplestorageContract`. This function will deploy a `SimpleStorage` contract and save the result into a _storage variable_:

```
// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
pragma solidity ^0.8.18;

contract StorageFactory {

    function createSimplestorageContract() public {
        // How does StorageFactory know what SimpleStorage looks like?
    }
}
```

We need to establish a connection between the two contracts, since `StorageFactory` needs to have a complete knowledge of `SimpleStorage`. One first approach could be copying the `SimpleStorage` contract above `StorageFactory`.

> ðŸ—’ï¸ **NOTE**\
> It's allowed to have multiple contracts in the same file. As best practice, however, it's recommended to use only one file for each contract

# Deploying a Contract from a Contract
- This covers the process of **programmatically deploying** a `SimpleStorage` contract and saving it to a _storage or state variable_.

## Creating a new variable
- Following the format _type-visibility-name_, we can declare a new _state variable_ of type `SimpleStorage`.

```
// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
pragma solidity ^0.8.18;

contract StorageFactory {

	//uint256 public favNum
	//type visibility name
    SimpleStorage public simpleStorage;

    function createSimplestorageContract() public {
        simpleStorage = new SimpleStorage();
    }
}
```

> ðŸ‘€â—**IMPORTANT**:br
> `SimpleStorage` on the left and `simpleStorage` on the right are treated as entirely distinct entities due to their differing capitalization. `Simple Storage` refers to the contract type while `simpleStorage` refers to the variable name.

- When the `new` keyword is used, the compiler recognizes the intention to deploy a new contract instance. After compiling, we can proceed to deploy it.

- In Remix, you'll then notice two buttons: an orange `createSimpleStorageContract` and a blue one, `SimpleStorage`, generated by the `public` keyword. If we call both, first `createSimpleStorageContract` and then `SimpleStorage`, the address that appears below confirms that our `SimpleStorage` contract has been deployed.

# Solidity Imports
- The `import` statement is a more efficientway to arrange and organize the code instead of coping the code directly into the file.

## Importing Code
- The `import` keyword enables a contract to utilize code from other files without needing to include the entire codebase directly within the contract. Here are two of the main advantages that the `import` keyword provides:

1. **No cluttering**: it prevents your current file from being cluttered with numerous lines of code, keeping it clean and organized.
2. **Simplified maintenance**: by keeping the code in separate files, it becomes easier to maintain and update individual components without affecting the entire codebase. For example, if we change some lines inside `SimpleStorage`, we would have also to constantly copy-paste the modified content into `StorageFactory`

```
import "./SimpleStorage.sol";
```

> ðŸš§ **WARNING**:br
> All the solidity contracts should be compiled together using the _same compiler version_. It's important to ensure **consistency** between compiler versions across files since each one will have its own `pragma` statement.

## Named Imports
- Let's assume for a moment that `SimpleStorage` would contain multiple contracts, e.g. `SimpleStorage`, `SimpleStorage1`, `SimpleStorage2`, which are quite extensive in size. If we import the whole file as we did before, the statement will replace the `import` directive with _all_ the code contained in `SimpleStorage.sol`. This will result in an unnecessary expensive deployment of the `StorageFactory` contract.

- This can be prevented with **named imports**, which allow you to selectively import only the specific contracts you intend to use:

```
import { SimpleStorage } from "./SimpleStorage.sol";
```

You can also use named imports to import multiple contracts:

```
import { SimpleStorage, SimpleStorage1 } from "./SimpleStorage.sol";
```

> ðŸ‘€â—**IMPORTANT**\
> Try to always default to named imports instead of importing the entire file.

## Conclusion
The import keyword allows a contract to use code from other files without including the entire codebase. However, it can introduce compilation issues if different compiler versions are used in these files.
